new feature: spike-in normalization & output overhaul (#94)
CCBR/ASPEN: CHANGELOG.md

> ## ASPEN development version
> 
> ## ASPEN 1.1.0

Reviewer: FYI @kopardev we no longer edit the changelog header directly in feature/bugfix PRs, the `draft-release` & `post-release` actions take care of it automatically

```suggestion
## ASPEN development version

```

### General Changes

- Simplified the pipeline by removing unused or redundant rules, scripts, and parameters.
- Updated the pipeline to focus on core functionalities, including alignment, peak calling, differential accessibility, and quality control.

> 
> ### Configuration Changes
> 
> - Added `spikein` and `spikein_genome` parameters to `config.yaml`.
> - Updated `cluster.json` to increase the number of threads for most rules and removed unused rules.
> 
> ### Alignment Changes
> 
> - Added spike-in alignment (`align2spikein`) and scaling factor computation rules. ([#69](https://github.com/CCBR/ASPEN/issues/69), @kopardev)
> - Updated `align.smk` to simplify alignment steps and add spike-in-related logic.
> - Added the `chromosomes` parameter in alignment and replaced the hardcoded chromosome names.
> 
> ### Peak Calling Changes
> 
> - Updated MACS2 and Genrich peak calling rules to add spike-in-related logic.
> - Simplified peak filtering by applying a lenient q-value filter (default 0.1) directly in the peak calling scripts. ([#90](https://github.com/CCBR/ASPEN/issues/90), @kopardev)
> - Peak called narrowPeak files are now default q-value filtered. Unfiltered files are still available for users who want to apply their own filters.
> - Removed redundant peak annotation steps and streamlined the output structure for peak calling. ([#92](https://github.com/CCBR/ASPEN/issues/92), @kopardev)
> - peakcaller added to ROI filenames ([#86](https://github.com/CCBR/ASPEN/issues/86), @kopardev)
> - missing annotations added ([#79](https://github.com/CCBR/ASPEN/issues/79), @kopardev)
> 
> ### Differential Accessibility Changes ([#68](https://github.com/CCBR/ASPEN/issues/68), @kopardev)
> 
> - Add new rules for scaling counts and annotating regions of interest.
> - DiffATAC analysis is now run for both MACS2 and Genrich peak calls, with results stored in separate directories.
> - Updated the `diffatac.smk` file to include spike-in scaling factors in the differential analysis.
> - Removed redundant steps in the differential accessibility analysis to streamline the process.
> - create Tn5-based and reads-based counts matrices ([#67](https://github.com/CCBR/ASPEN/issues/67), @kopardev)
> - create spike-in scaled counts matrices ([#62](https://github.com/CCBR/ASPEN/issues/62), @kopardev)
> 
> ### Quality Control Changes
> 
> - Updated FRiP calculation to use `tagAlign.gz` files instead of deduplicated BAM files.
> - Removed unnecessary QC metrics and simplified the QC workflow.
> - Updated TSS enrichment and fragment length distribution rules to align with the simplified pipeline structure.
> 
> ### Documentation Changes
> 
> - Updated all documentation files to reflect the addition of spike-in normalization and related features. ([#93](https://github.com/CCBR/ASPEN/issues/93), @kopardev)
> - Simplified the documentation to focus on the core functionalities of the pipeline.
> - Added references to spike-in genomes, scaling factors, and related analyses.
> 
> ### Script Changes
> 
> - Appended scripts related to spike-in normalization, scaling factors, and Tn5 BAM generation.
> - Updated peak calling scripts (`ccbr_atac_macs2_peak_calling.bash` and `ccbr_atac_genrich_peak_calling.bash`) to simplify logic and remove redundant steps.
> - Updated featureCounts header fix script to remove references to spike-in-specific file naming.
> 
> ### Output Structure Changes
> 
> - Simplified the output directory structure. ([#92](https://github.com/CCBR/ASPEN/issues/92), @kopardev)
> - Consolidated peak calling outputs into a single directory for each peak caller. ([#91](https://github.com/CCBR/ASPEN/issues/91), @kopardev)
> - Updated the `results` folder structure to align with the simplified pipeline.
> 
> ### Miscellaneous Changes
> 
> - Updated all rules and scripts to use consistent naming conventions and file paths.
> - Improved readability and maintainability of the codebase by removing redundant logic and comments.
> - Decreased output digital footprint by removing unwanted intermediate files, gzipping annotated files, etc. ([#87](https://github.com/CCBR/ASPEN/issues/87), @kopardev)
> 

Reviewer: The changelog is meant to be a description of user-facing changes with links to the PRs that implement them. Here's an overhaul that removes non-user-facing changes and streamlines it so it's easier to understand the main changes at a glance.

```suggestion

This version features a major overhaul of the pipeline with changes in the following areas:

- spike-in alignment
  - Added support for spike-in alignment and scaling factor computation. (#94, @kopardev)
  - This new feature is controlled by two new parameters in the config file: `spikein` and `spikein_genome`. (#69)
- Peak-calling (#94, @kopardev)
  - Peak-called narrowPeak files are now q-value filtered by default, with a default q-value threshold of 0.1. Unfiltered files are still available for users who want to apply their own filters. (#90)
  - Streamlined the output directory structure. 
  - Added the name of the peak-caller to ROI filenames (#86)
  - Added missing annotations (#79)
- Differential accessibility
  - Add new rules for scaling counts and annotating regions of interest. (#68)
  - DiffATAC analysis is now run for both MACS2 and Genrich peak calls, with results stored in separate directories.
  - DiffATAC analysis now includes spike-in scaling factors when `spikein` is `TRUE`.
  - Removed redundant steps in the differential accessibility analysis to streamline the process.
  - create Tn5-based and reads-based counts matrices (#67)
  - create spike-in scaled counts matrices (#62)
- Quality control
  - Updated FRiP calculation to use `tagAlign.gz` files instead of deduplicated BAM files.
  - Removed unnecessary QC metrics and simplified the QC workflow.
  - Updated TSS enrichment and fragment length distribution rules to align with the simplified pipeline structure.
- Output directory
  - Consolidated peak calling outputs into a single directory for each peak caller. (#91)
  - Simplified the output directory structure. (#92)
  - Decreased output digital footprint by removing unwanted intermediate files, gzipping annotated files, etc. (#87)
- Documentation
  - Simplified the documentation to focus on the core functionalities of the pipeline, as well as reflect all of the changes in this version.

```
